>> Kyle Simpson: So now hopefully you're
feeling a lot more confident having
practiced in an exercise, practiced
the whole map and filter and reduce thing.
But one thing that we wanna know is that
it's going to be extremely common as you
start using these utilities more often.
It's gonna be extremely common that you
end up in a scenario where you have say
a chain of a map and then a reduce and, or
a map and then a filter and then reduce.
Or two or three maps, and
then another filter, or a map and
a couple of filters and another reduce.
Those sorts of chains of things
are gonna happen very often.
And by the way, those are good things.
It's good if your mapper or
your predicate or
your reducer is a single
responsibility thing.
That's a good outcome.
But there are some downsides to
having a chain of several maps and
then several filters and
then several reducers.
One of those downsides is from
a performance perspective.
You have to remember, especially if we're
thinking about larger data structures,
things that aren't just
a few values in an array.
You have to remember that each time
one of those map or filters or
reduces gets called, it's producing
a whole new data structure as a result.
So if I have a chain of ten of those, then
I'm ending up producing nine intermediary
results of that data structure,
nine intermediary copies of that data
structure, and
those copies are then thrown away.
So not only is the extra processing of
going through the list over and over.
If it's 1,000 items,
then we've gone through it 9,000 times.
But it's also the garbage
collection overhead
of throwing away those nine extra copies
of the thing that we don't actually need.
So from a performance perspective,
there is a particular concern
if you have several items, or
if the data structures involved are gonna
be rather large or could be large.
There's a processing problem there.
But I would say there's an even more
important or at least as important issue,
which is that if you're listing out these
steps, step by step by step by step, it's
a little bit more difficult for somebody
to track, what is the flow of my data?
Even a vertical chain of things,
they're still having to step
from line the line to line.
And when we talked earlier in
the course about flow of data,
we said that a much more declarative way
of describing how data is gonna flow
is by using something like composition,
or a pipe.
Compose or pipe makes it clear
where our data flows are.
And so functional programmers,
instead of seeing or
liking a long chain of method calls,
they're going to prefer a composition.
So let's consider this usecase.
Let's imagine that we add
several maps that ended up
together subsequently off of
a chain off of some array.
Well we know the add1 and mul2 and
div3 because they're mapper functions.
They have a shape that is
compatible with each other.
They can be interchanged with each other,
and if
they can be interchanged with each other
that means they can be composed together.
Remember that whole idea of
composition associativity.
That means that if I were to group add1
and mul2 together in a composition,
that would be the same as if I grouped
mul2 and div3 together in a composition.
And those are both the same as if I
put all three of those together in
a composition.
There's an associativity
involved with composition.
And I just wanna take
a moment to remind you,
because it's extremely common in
programming specially in JavaScript,
you don't get these benefits that we keep
talking about just because you use .map.
You get these benefits if you adhere to
the principles of functional programming.
It's extremely common for
people to call a .map, but
inside of their mapper function, they're
accessing something on the outside because
it's too hard to figure out how to
get that into the mapper function.
So they just sort of cut corners and
they say, I'll just access
some value on the outside.
And that sort of side
effect impurity invalidates
all of the mathematical assumptions
that go into what we're talking about.
You cannot assume that
things compose nicely.
You can't assume
the associativity of composite.
You can't assume any of those mathematical
principles if you violate the most
fundamental of all the principles, which
is that this only worked for functions.
So it is critical, it is important, I
wanna reemphasized, even though it's much,
much easier,
[LAUGH] it is much easier to reference
something outside of your .map call.
I see people all the time
do a .map call and
they're basically adding elements
into some other array outside of it.
And it's essentially like a .forEach but
they don't feel good about using .forEach
so they use .map in an impure way.
So we're just using this as a looping API.
We're not using it to mean
anything significant or
semantic like it's
mapping data structures.
Just because you use .map doesn't make
you a functional programmer, okay?
Using functional principles in your code
is what gives you those sought of
guarantees that essentially avoid
entire classes of problem
that could otherwise happen.
We want to avoid those kinds of problems.
I don't want to make easy to find bugs
if I can just make it easy to never
have the bugs in the first place.
You see how the ladder of those two is
far preferable if it's possible to do so.
So it's important that we think about and
reemphasize, these have got to be
pure functions, in our case they are.
And in that case that means that we can
take advantage of composition here.
Those three functions can
be composed together.
And that's a technique we call fusion.
So if we take those three, add1, mul2, and
dive3, and put them into a composition,
and use that single resulting
function as as a .map call.
What we have said to
the reader of this code is,
you don't need to go track the data flow,
I'm declarative
telling you it's a composition of
these three in this specific order.
We're gonna go add1,
then mul2, and then div3.
And if you visualize,
I wish I had the animation skills here.
If you visualize the numbers,
the number two moves through those.
The number two goes into the add1 and then
that result of three goes into mul2, and
that result goes into div3.
Those numbers,
those values that data is flowing
through that stream of composition.
And that's how we're ending up with the
new data structure that is 2, 4, 6, 8, 10,
12, 14.
So if we have a chain of maps together,
composition is a much
better way of declaratively saying
what all of those steps are gonna be.
Rather than three .map calls,
it would be preferable from functional
perspective to use composition.
I should also point out,
and I definitely cover this
in a lot more detail in the book,
so I'll just briefly mention.
That generally speaking,
functional programmers don't
like to see methods on values.
They don't like to see an array and
then a .map call.
And the reason they don't like to see
that is because that is essentially from
the broader perspective that
essentially falls into this idea
of class-oriented thinking.
We have this value that has data.
It has behavior associated with the data.
There's this class called array that
has a method called map on it and
we're invoking that array.
And the reason why this is a problem
is because that map call in and
out of itself is impure.
And the reason it's impure is because
it is receiving as an implicit
input of this context that tells it,
use this particular array.
The reason why that's a problem,
the reason why
the whole idea of using this aware things,
methods on values, that sort of thing,
the reason why that's a problem is
those are inherently uncomposable.
I can't take another map call, a map on
this array method and easily compose that
with some other function because the input
to that map call, part of it is indirect.
So I end up having to create
a hardbound version of it,
do all these other weird workarounds.
It makes it much more awkward.
The math doesn't work out, if you will.
Because we're not really following
the true functional principles.
So that's why you'll actually
see in libraries like Ramda and
Lodash and stuff, you won't see
a method like .map on an array,
you'll see a standalone map method that
takes both the mapper function and
the array as explicit inputs rather than
one of them being an implicit input.
That makes those inherently more
curryable, more composable,
all of these principles that
we've been talking about, okay?
So we're using the array, built-in array
map and array-reduce, we're using them for
convenience sake in the illustration here.
But you should be aware in this bigger
sense that you're traditionally
gonna be wanting to use these standalone
function versions of all these
utilities rather than the method versions.